Releasenotes4.0.0 preview1 (#1222)
dotnet/SqlClient: release-notes/4.0/4.0.0-preview1.md

- Optimized async method allocations in .NET Framework by porting changes from .NET Core. [#1084](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1084)

## New features over stable release v3.0

### Encrypt default value set to true

The default value of the `Encrypt` connection setting has been changed from `false` to `true`. With the growing use of cloud databases and the need to ensure those connections are secure, it's time for this backwards-compatibility-breaking change.

### Ensure connections fail when encryption is required
In scenarios where client encryption libraries were disabled or unavailable, it was possible for unencrypted connections to be made when Encrypt was set to true or the server required encryption.

###  App Context Switch for using System default protocols

TLS 1.3 is not supported by the driver; therefore, it has been removed from the supported protocols list by default. Users can switch back to forcing use of Operating System's client protocols, by enabling the App Context switch below:

 `Switch.Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.UseSystemDefaultSecureProtocols`

### Enable optimized parameter binding

> Microsoft.Data.SqlClient introduces new `SqlCommand` API, `EnableOptimizedParameterBinding` to improve performance of queries with large number of parameters. This property is disabled by default. When set to `true`, parameter names will not be sent to the SQL server when the command is executed. This also means that you can't reference parameters by name when using this option.

Reviewer: I think the was a communication breakdown and @Wraith2 's concern was not addressed. I probably mis-remembered the exact limitation with the option. Here's my guess at what it should be:
```suggestion
Microsoft.Data.SqlClient introduces new `SqlCommand` API, `EnableOptimizedParameterBinding` to improve performance of queries with large number of parameters. This property is disabled by default. When set to `true`, parameter names will not be sent to the SQL server when the command is executed. A value of `true` also can't be used with output parameters.
```

- The driver now throws `SqlException` replacing `AggregateException` for active directory authentication modes. [#1213](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1213)
- Dropped obsolete `Asynchronous Processing` connection property from .NET Framework. [#1148](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1148)

### Added
- Added `SqlCommand.EnableOptimizedParameterBinding` property that when enabled increases performance for commands with very large numbers of parameters. [#1041](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1141) [Read more](#enable-optimized-parameter-binding)
- Included `42108` and `42109` error codes to retriable transient errors list. [#1215](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1215)
- Added new App Context switch to use OS enabled client protocols only. [#1168](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1168)
- Added `PoolBlockingPeriod` connection property support in .NET Standard. [#1181](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1181)
- Added support for `SqlDataReader.GetColumnSchema()` in .NET Standard. [#1181](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1181)

> - Added PropertyGrid support with component model annotations to `SqlConnectionStringBuilder` properties for .NET Core.[#1152](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1152)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added PropertyGrid support with component model annotations to `SqlConnectionStringBuilder` properties for .NET Core. [#1152](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1152)
```

### Fixed
- Fixed issue with connectivity when TLS 1.3 is enabled on client and server. [#1168](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1168)
- Fixed the issue with connection encryption to ensure connections fails when encryption is required. [#1210](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1210) [Read more](#ensure-connections-fail-when-encryption-is-required)
- Fixed issue where connection goes to unusable state. [#1128](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1128)
- Fixed recursive calls to `RetryLogicProvider` when calling `SqlCommand.ExecuteScalarAsync`. [#1220](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1220)
- Fixed async deadlock scenarios in web contexts with configurable retry logic provider. [#1220](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1220)
- Fixed `EntryPointNotFoundException` in `InOutOfProcHelper` constructor. [#1120](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1120)
- Fixed async thread blocking issues on `SqlConnection.Open()` for active directory authentication modes. [#1213](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1213)

> - Fixed driver behavior for always encrypted with secure enclaves to not fail when no user parameters have been provided.[#1115](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1115)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed driver behavior for always encrypted with secure enclaves to not fail when no user parameters have been provided. [#1115](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1115)
```

- Optimized async method allocations in .NET Framework by porting changes from .NET Core. [#1084](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1084)

## New features over stable release v3.0

### Encrypt default value set to true

The default value of the `Encrypt` connection setting has been changed from `false` to `true`. With the growing use of cloud databases and the need to ensure those connections are secure, it's time for this backwards-compatibility-breaking change.

### Ensure connections fail when encryption is required
In scenarios where client encryption libraries were disabled or unavailable, it was possible for unencrypted connections to be made when Encrypt was set to true or the server required encryption.

###  App Context Switch for using System default protocols

TLS 1.3 is not supported by the driver; therefore, it has been removed from the supported protocols list by default. Users can switch back to forcing use of Operating System's client protocols, by enabling the App Context switch below:

 `Switch.Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.UseSystemDefaultSecureProtocols`

### Enable optimized parameter binding

> The new API takes two Boolean values of `true` or `false`.
> When set to true parameter names will not be sent to the SQL server when the command is executed. This behavior has been shown to increase performance for commands with very large numbers of parameters which are used in bulk operations. This also means that you can't reference parameters by name when using this option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Microsoft.Data.SqlClient introduces new `SqlCommand` API, `EnableOptimizedParameterBinding` to improve performance of queries with large number of parameters. This property is disabled by default. When set to `true`, parameter names will not be sent to the SQL server when the command is executed. This also means that you can't reference parameters by name when using this option.
```

```cs
public class SqlCommand
{

> 	public bool DisableOutputParameters {get; set;}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	public bool EnableOptimizedParameterBinding { get; set; }
```

- Optimized async method allocations in .NET Framework by porting changes from .NET Core. [#1084](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1084)

## New features over stable release v3.0

### Encrypt default value set to true

The default value of the `Encrypt` connection setting has been changed from `false` to `true`. With the growing use of cloud databases and the need to ensure those connections are secure, it's time for this backwards-compatibility-breaking change.

### Ensure connections fail when encryption is required
In scenarios where client encryption libraries were disabled or unavailable, it was possible for unencrypted connections to be made when Encrypt was set to true or the server required encryption.

###  App Context Switch for using System default protocols

TLS 1.3 is not supported by the driver; therefore, it has been removed from the supported protocols list by default. Users can switch back to forcing use of Operating System's client protocols, by enabling the App Context switch below:

 `Switch.Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.UseSystemDefaultSecureProtocols`

### Enable optimized parameter binding

The new API takes two Boolean values of `true` or `false`.

> When set to true parameters names will not be sent to the SQL server when the command is executed. This behavior has been shown to increase performance for commands with very large numbers of parameters which are used in bulk operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When set to true parameter names will not be sent to the SQL server when the command is executed. This behavior has been shown to increase performance for commands with very large numbers of parameters which are used in bulk operations. This also means that you can't reference parameters by name when using this option.
```

Reviewer 3: You can use the names. You just don't get any output parameters sent back to you. The names are sent in two places, the query and the parameter data and in this case we omit the name in the parameter data section. The effect of this is as if a lookup list of name=value mappings isn't created and this means that the list isn't constantly traversed to find names (which is where the perf increase comes from) but also that when you want to write the output value you can't find it by name to do so and so you don't get output values sent back.

Author: done.

Reviewer 2: @Wraith2 Can you put it in 1 sentence that we should update it here? :)

Reviewer 3: David's changes are fine without the last sentence that was added.

# Release Notes

> ## Microsoft.Data.SqlClient 4.0.0-preview1 released 23 August 2021

Reviewer 2: We need to keep placeholder for final release version.
```suggestion
## Microsoft.Data.SqlClient 4.0.0-preview1.xxxxx.x released 23 August 2021
```

This update brings the below changes over the previous release:

> ### Breaking Changes over stable release 3.0.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Breaking changes over stable release 3.0.0
```

> - Changed `Encrypt` connection string property to be `true` by default.[Read more](#encrypt-default-value-set-to-true)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Changed `Encrypt` connection string property to be `true` by default. [Read more](#encrypt-default-value-set-to-true)
```

> - Changed `Encrypt` connection string property to be `true` by default.[Read more](#encrypt-default-value-set-to-true)
> [#1210](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1210)

Reviewer 4: Following the previous format, Please, add the `read more` after PRs numbers.
```suggestion
- Changed `Encrypt` connection string property to be `true` by default. [#1210](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1210) [Read more](#encrypt-default-value-set-to-true)
```

- The driver now throws `SqlException` replacing `AggregateException` for active directory authentication modes.
[#1213](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1213)
- Dropped obsolete `Asynchronous Processing` connection property from .NET Framework 
[#1148](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1148)

### Added

> - Added `SqlCommand.EnableOptimizedParameterBinding` property that when enabled increases performance for commands with very large numbers of parameters.[Read more](#disable-output-parameters)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added `SqlCommand.EnableOptimizedParameterBinding` property that when enabled increases performance for commands with very large numbers of parameters. [Read more](#disable-output-parameters)
```

> - Added `SqlCommand.EnableOptimizedParameterBinding` property that when enabled increases performance for commands with very large numbers of parameters.[Read more](#disable-output-parameters)
> [#1041](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1141)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Added `SqlCommand.EnableOptimizedParameterBinding` property that when enabled increases performance for commands with very large numbers of parameters. [#1041](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1141) [Read more](#disable-output-parameters)
```

> Included `42108` and `42109` error codes to retriable transient errors list.
> [#1215](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1215)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Included `42108` and `42109` error codes to retriable transient errors list. [#1215](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1215)
```

- Added new App Context switch to use OS enabled client protocols only 
[#1168](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1168)
- Added `PoolBlockingPeriod` connection property support in .NET Standard.
[#1181](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1181)
- Added support for `SqlDataReader.GetColumnSchema()` in .NET Standard. 
[#1181](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1181)
- Added PropertyGrid support with component model annotations to `SqlConnectionStringBuilder` properties for .NET Core.
[#1152](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1152)

### Fixed
- Fixed issue with connectivity when TLS 1.3 is enabled on client and server.
[#1168](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1168)

> - Fixed the issue with connection encryption to ensure connections fails when encryption is required.[Read more](#ensure-connections-fail-when-encryption-is-required)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed the issue with connection encryption to ensure connections fails when encryption is required. [Read more](#ensure-connections-fail-when-encryption-is-required)
```

> - Fixed the issue with connection encryption to ensure connections fails when encryption is required.[Read more](#ensure-connections-fail-when-encryption-is-required)
> [#1210](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1210)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Fixed the issue with connection encryption to ensure connections fails when encryption is required. [#1210](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1210) [Read more](#ensure-connections-fail-when-encryption-is-required)
```

- Fixed issue where connection goes to unusable state.
[#1128](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1128)

> - Fixed recursive calls to `RetryLogicProvider` when calling `SqlCommand.ExecuteScalarAsync` Default Operating System could be used by App Context Switch `UseSystemDefaultSecureProtocols`.
> [#1220](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1220)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Fixed recursive calls to `RetryLogicProvider` when calling `SqlCommand.ExecuteScalarAsync`. [#1220](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1220)
```

- Fixed bug with `LegacyRowVersionNullBehavior` App Context switch.
[#1182](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1182)
- Fixed issues in Strings.resx file containing error messages
[#1136](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1136)
[#1178](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1178)

### Changed
- Updated error code to match with Windows when certificate validation fails in non-Windows client environments.
[#1130](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1130)
- Removed designer attributes from `SqlCommand` and `SqlDataAdapter`
[#1132](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1132)
- Updated configurable retry logic default retriable error list
[#1125](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1125)
- Improved performance by changing `SqlParameter` bool fields to flags.
[#1064](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1064)
- Improved performance by implementing static delegates.
[#1060](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1060)
- Optimized async method allocations in .NET Framework by porting changes from .NET Core.
[#1084](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1084)

## New features over stable release v3.0

### Encrypt default value set to true

> `Encrypt` connection setting default changed to true.
> The default value of the `Encrypt` connection setting has been changed from false to true. With the growing use of cloud databases and the need to ensure those connections are secure, it's time for this backwards-compatibility-breaking change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default value of the `Encrypt` connection setting has been changed from false to true. With the growing use of cloud databases and the need to ensure those connections are secure, it's time for this backwards-compatibility-breaking change.
```

### Ensure connections fail when encryption is required
In scenarios where client encryption libraries were disabled or unavailable, it was possible for unencrypted connections to be made when Encrypt was set to true or the server required encryption.

###  App Context Switch for using System default protocols

> TLS 1.3 is not supported by the driver; therefore, it has been removed from the supported protocols list by default. A user can go back to Operating System's default protocols by using the newly added App Context switch as below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TLS 1.3 is not supported by the driver; therefore, it has been removed from the supported protocols list by default. Users can switch back to forcing use of Operating System's client protocols, by enabling the App Context switch below:
```

>  `AppContext.SetSwitch("Switch.Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.UseSystemDefaultSecureProtocols", true);`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 `Switch.Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.UseSystemDefaultSecureProtocols`
```

> ### Disable Output Parameters

Reviewer 2: Please fix this section with correct name and API signatures.
